Everyone, welcome back.
And this is a very interesting problem.
It is longest common subsequent and el-Sisi's actually longest comments wins only.
But sometimes what happens is people referred to earlier this longest common upstream.
But that's not true.
Right.
Or what you always doing is you're going to always come from the other person as they are talking about
subsequent or substring because subsequent is different from substring.
We all know that.
Right?
Let's quickly go with it.
What is the substring?
It is a continuous piece of characters.
Subsequent may not be continuous, but they are ordered is of characters.
So let's if I was doing ABC, how many such things will be there?
It triggered something starting from me.
E ab ABC thing starting from b, b, b, c and from C to see that we have total X of strength.
Right?
It means there are and substring starting from here and minus one substring starting from b and and
minus two substring starting from C basically it is and and my husband and so until zero so the summation
is and then plus one way to Rachel we have these we need total substring file for the subsequent is
it's the string is there ABC we have up sequences of length.
One subsequent is of land to.
And subsequently the land, sea and subsequent land zero are also the empty string.
So you can see you see also subsequent various is he was not the upstream because it's not continuous.
I hope this difference between subsequent and substring is very clear.
Now let's talk about the problem.
The problem says find the longest common subsequent eight or subsequent is the other one eight.
So how many subsequent is are there race?
There are two race for the boat and subsequent is how?
Because all three characters have two options.
Eight added they will come in the subsequent or did not come in the subsequent.
Two options for their two options for be two options for see the total to enter doing to do it.
Options eight.
So similarly in this similar fashion, we'll solve this problem.
We have these two things.
Let me quickly write them.
Okay.
Let's, uh.
Yeah, let's give an example.
Only it'd be a.
Eight and the other is b, c, double B.
So what is the longest common subsequent object?
If you can.
So here it is.
Be.
And this be it or the other can be instead of having this be.
We could also.
We could also have this thing to do this and this.
This is the longest possible moments of sequence of body.
Things.
Just tell me.
What if we had a CEO with you?
And what had it been for?
And the longest comment subsequent or no they fire because the auto matters this be matches with this
be this be matches with this be this be matches with this be.
But now we cannot, you know, match this C to the see because the order matters.
So if see would have been here, then they would have meshed together.
They.
I hope this is clear.
The order matters.
You cannot ignore that kind of.
Yeah.
Now, let's think about their dining room solution.
So how do we always begin?
We always begin by placing an eight point and joint area, and we see that we make a state that f of
i go my j is nothing but alcaeus of e starting from a who end and b starting from j to.
Denise.
I hope this part is very clear.
I'm just a lot more vigorous anymore.
I just retired eight.
Well, tell me, what options do E?
And this business model options are the best option is whether this will be in the subsequent or it
will not be in the subsequent rate.
There are two cases, as always, if.
Easy.
It was too busy.
First thing is to very simply bow.
The characters are seem a little.
But the characters were the same.
Let's see if there was a B over here and I'm trying to match both these B and then the answer is nothing,
but it will be nothing but one.
Plus, whatever is the best subsequent find, the longest common subsequent from the rest of the string.
Read Next of the string.
What is the rest of the string?
Here it is a plus one comma j plus one.
Will these.
I hope this is very clear when both of them are equal to Trump biscuits the normal case.
But when both of them are not equal, what options he has, he has an option that I will not go in subsequent
than eight.
Then find the best subsequent which is starting from a plus one to end and be doing so.
In this case, we can always sit there day by day.
It's equal to.
EPA Gomer Pyle DB A-plus.
When committee which is.
The best from the others or the securing option that is don't include being these applicants don't downbeat
right if I'm not including this be in the subsequent the g part then simply is find the best subsequent
from the plus when doing and i i doing.
Because this I will still be there.
Eight.
AP, former NDP icon, be less fun and will they simply max of them?
So there's also a third option, but that's a return and option.
I mean, that will be handled indirectly and that is very important to understand there, to take some
more time and explain it.
It is simple.
If I if I have.
There can be this also that both of them are not in my longest common subsequent raid.
That means we took up case when both of them are in the longest common subsequent when both of them
are equal.
This case with Dukakis win is not there, which is this case.
We do a case when B is not there, this case.
But what if both of them are not there in B?
Then can we say that it is equal to.
This which is deep.
I might g is equal to all of this in this case, which is I plus one comedy plus one.
That means if both of them are not there, then what is the remaining string to be matched this in this?
And can I say that I take this case?
Well, not taking this case.
Give me a wrong answer.
No, they let me let me explain this to you.
And it's it's very important to understand this, because this will also.
It problems in future.
So the first thing is.
This case.
We can take this case and it will give us the right answer if we take it.
But if we do not take this case right now, it will still give us the right answer.
Why?
Because this case is being handled indirectly.
So you remember we are taking maximum of this in this.
Let me let me take an example.
Let's say if I am on BP zero zero.
800 will call DP zero one.
And BP.
One zero.
Eight.
Now just remember BP zero one, you know, it's already p02, which is a plus one and EPA plus one go
magic.
If we one common similarity people zero will do the same deep zero to.
Also BP to zero and DP one comma one.
In this what's happening instead of calling a third case which is DP one one in the case that we are
talking about this case that both of them are not there, this particular case is being handled over
here and here.
If it is already being handled in its subtree and we are taking maximum of all of them invite to make
a third.
Why do make a call?
Why do you need three branches when only two can work?
So this is what is called optimal substructure.
You must have heard about it at the beginning of this course.
Eight Optimal Substructure.
That means if I don't take this abstracted and do work on down so it would work, right?
It's what's the meaning of optimal eight.
So I hope this is making sense.
So what we'll do is we'll not take this case into account because it is already being handled in.
This case and for this case that I'll be calling this particular.
Maybe later it will be a blessed one day who's a comedy policeman will be able as when they present
for this idea.
That means you're not thinking two steps ahead will only think one step away.
Oh, yeah.
I hope this is clear.
Of course you can call it.
It won't matter.
But although there won't be any difference in the complexities because it's just one extra case calling
and I will memorize it, of course.
So no, not much in the time and complexity will change it.
I hope you got this the longest comments up sequence and we are doing the same thing for every problem.
The idea what all options are there this option, then this, this option.
Then this makes less one whatever we want be and simply have it right.
And so let's call this.
We have two strings.
Also I have a problem in which, instead of subsequent will be finding substance.
It is this one.
Longest woman, 78.
But right now we are talking about longest common subsequent.
In the next lecture I read taking this problem longest common substring.
But it is very easy.
So I would suggest if you just go on to the upstream problem and think about it yourself included.
Oh, yeah.
Let's click on this.
We have string schema elastic to strings SNP.
Eight and.
You can also put this in bottom of manner or top down that manner.
In which element are you want to.
I like dropdown thing so I'll just call in that.
Or literally delicious.
It was zero zero and we cleaned it all away.
It.
And so if.
Okay.
So let's talk about the abuse cases.
It's a physical stool as dirt.
Face.
But if I.
Is this the end and do it all to reach the end?
Let's see.
Do you request to treat or is either like better than zero because or the longest common subsequent
of of to empty strings.
Zero eight.
Emily, if I has reached the end only I guess it is the end, then it's again zero.
Because again, the longest woman subsequent of an empty string with anything is zero.
And let's do this for J as well.
Well, now it means both.
I India are not in the end.
But what options do I have?
I have essays equal strategic and it is nothing but.
Okay, let's take another variable called ons.
But.
Answer is nothing but one place.
Alcaeus Alcaeus A-plus one comma J plus one.
Because if both of them are equal, we are taking them into my subsequent.
And what if both of them are not equal?
Then it is nothing.
With marks of alcaeus I call my zipless one.
LC es i comma i plus one committee.
Blessing.
No, no, not on here.
But it's a whatever.
Next, will you give me their max?
And I simply return the answer.
Just below this we are getting to the yeah so trees the output this one thing right now this is a if
this is the case then it is a linear solution.
Otherwise it will be a.
It will diverge under two, and it is to race to the power in solution in the worst case rate.
So how do I minimize this?
By memorization.
Memorization is nothing but also to alter God caching things.
So that's how cache --.
You know that whenever you use an app application, you use an app in your phone.
There's always a cache in it, right?
So what does that cache do?
Instead of sending the request again to the server and asking for data, it actually saves the most
frequently used data into a memory and it directly fetch from the memory instead of using internet of
Things.
For example, I can Facebook, I can say you're using an app, Facebook, and there's an icon, right?
That icon is actually stored in the memory.
Of course, it's different from cache, but in cache also one of the other same things.
Instead of sending the request again and again and getting the response it will, cash should send the
request once ordered into the disk.
Use it whenever it wants to use it.
So that's how caching works, and that is called memorization in that case.
But what is the length of the strings?
It is five.
One, two, three, four.
Okay.
But I think this is huge.
Eight.
Yep.
This is very huge.
Can I do better?
Yes, of course I can do better.
And I'll give you a better solution than this.
But for now, let's just finish it.
Well, and then you can also memorize it.
So in the next lecture, what we can do is we can try to optimize this data and how can I optimize this
particular.
Memory limit.
And this is also important.
Many of the problems you will see optimization related to memory.
And we will see how to do it well.
So thank you, everyone.
And then I'll complete this call in the next part eight.
Thanks.